Hello, everybody. So a while ago, our CEO went onto Amazon and then he typed the cheapest

laptop he could find. And he just ordered the laptop and he brought it to the office.

So he brought it to the office. It was an Acer Celeron laptop, really low spec, very,

very similar to a Chromebook, and he decided to test Postman on this really, really cheap

laptop. We were not surprised that it was painful to watch. It was very, very, very

difficult to get Postman working on that laptop. It was very slow. Sometimes it takes

about 30, 40, 50 seconds to launch, and it will just start crashing. The CPU starts

spiking. And it was a very difficult thing to see. And we knew we had a performance

problem. But only then we realized how bad the problem was. Hi, everybody. So my name

is Ruben Casas, I am a staff engineer at Postman, and today I'm going to show you five tips

on how to improve your app performance. From picking the right metric, so understanding

your problem, to reviewing and creating an action plan to bring the company together

and solve the performance of your app. Doesn't matter if it's a mobile app, a desktop app,

or a React app, you should be able to use these tips to get up and going and improving

the performance like we did with Postman. So where do we start? In performance, the

only place to start is measure, measure, measure. You need to start measuring performance. You

cannot start solving a problem unless you start measuring performance. And then after

you measure performance, the first thing you need to do is to pick a north star metric.

You can measure multiple things, a lot of things, but you need to pick one metric and

start obsessing over that metric and fixing and improving that metric. So we already had

the metrics, some metrics at Postman, we had the usual stuff, we had the Core Vitals, the

Lighthouse metrics. But to solve this problem, because it was so complicated, we knew we

had to go deeper to understand the problem. So which one? Which one do we choose from

Lighthouse? Which metric? We decided to go a different way. I found recently this concept

called TTF. And TTF is used in mobile gaming. And as you can see in the Super Mario GIF

here, is the time it takes to have fun. So from the moment you start a Mario game, you

immediately start having fun. You start jumping, killing enemies, getting money, getting

power-ups. So they have this term in mobile gaming called time to fun. Make sure that as

soon as people open their app, they start having fun. Now our application is not a

mobile app that you can use, but I got inspired by that and decided to choose a

different metric called TTU. And TTU stands for Time to Usability. So Time to Usability

is a metric that we have chosen to improve the performance of our application. And what is

Time to Usability? Well, there are examples of other applications that are using this

metric. They don't call it TTU. And TTU is a term that I came up with. But some other

companies like VS Code have a concept of Time to Usability. And for them, Time to

Usability is the time that takes for a user to get a blinking cursor and start coding

on VS Code. Other companies like Slack, for example, they have the same, which is how

fast until the user can open a chat and send a message. Now, what about TTI, Time to

Interactive? We already have a metric in Lighthouse called Time to Interactive. And

this Time to Interactive metric is measuring the time that it takes the application for

you to be able to click and do things around it. But the problem with TTI is, in

short, that it's technically ready. So your application is ready from the technical

sense, so it's not blocked, you can start doing things. However, it doesn't tell you

when you can actually start getting benefits from your app. In this case, TTU is

probably a better metric because it reflects the real usability and the real things that

developers are doing with your application. And we can optimize for what actually

matters to our users. So we selected our TTU, Time to Usability, and the Time to Usability

for Postman was the time that it takes for the Workbench, which is the main workspace

where you perform most of the operations in Postman, and for the main part of the

application, which is sending requests to be active. We put this as our critical path.

The Time to Usability was the time that it took for someone to click onto the desktop

application icon for this page to render and for that button to be ready for you to

send a request, which is what most of the Postman users do exactly when they start the

application. So we've chosen our TTU and we've defined it. Now, how do we measure it? Because

we can just say, this is the time it takes for Postman to launch and show the button,

but we need real data to measure this. And as I mentioned, TTU is a made-up metric that I came

up with. It's not something that's provided with Lighthouse or with the Core Web Vitals.

So we needed to measure this. And the way we did this was we inserted marks for the platform

initialization, JavaScript evaluation, data fetching, rendering. Then we also captured the

navigation resources. How long does it take for you to download that JavaScript, if it's coming

from the network or from the service worker? We turned this into spans and we pushed them into

our RAM and our synthetic labs for tracking. And our users are everywhere in the world.

There are different CPUs, different laptops. So we had to get segmented dashboards per CPU

and region just to see how the variation of the performance was between those regions and

different users. You can do this. You can measure with just a built-in browser API,

performance.mark. So performance.mark is very powerful, which is basically, you add it to your code

and you start measuring from the moment you put a marker until the next part you put this marker,

it will measure the time that it takes. So for example, in this case, this is a pseudocode

of what we started measuring. We measured from the time that the platform initialized,

the time that it took for the JavaScript bundles to load and execute and parse and compile,

the time that it took for our data fetching to get all that data to show to the user,

and the time that it took for that render of the critical UI to show on the page. And at the end,

we just marked this with, okay, this core feature is ready and our time to usability is ready for us.

Now, how do you see this locally and in synthetic monitoring? You can do this by going to the

performance in the developer tools, you run a performance profile on your laptop,

and these markers will start appearing in the timings section of that performance profile.

Now, we don't want to just do this test on our laptops, we want to make sure that we can measure

on real users and real user devices. So even though that we can do this locally,

we also wanted to aggregate and publish these to our real user metrics. So we use another API called

the performance.measure that gathers all of those performance markers that we showed you a minute

ago. And you can take those markers and then send them to your analytic service. In this case,

I'm just console logging this, but you can just create an API that sends this information to your

real user metrics system. Now, this will allow you to create a lot of dashboards, and we created

a lot of dashboards. We have segmentations, how many users were seeing the application critical

path in under 10 seconds, how many people were seeing under 20, 30 seconds. We segmented this by

user, device, operating system, the different type of postman application, if it was web, desktop,

or if it was on Windows or macOS. Now, we set our goal. Our goal was to reduce the time to usability

from 35 to 40 seconds that was taken at P90 to 10 seconds. And why we decided to choose 10 seconds?

Well, we did some research, and 10 seconds is the maximum time that someone will wait for something

to happen before they get distracted and go and do something else. So 10 seconds was our benchmark.

And even though we had a lot of devices that were launching under 10 seconds, some of them were like

two, three, five seconds, but those were like the super powerful Macs that would run the application.

And we wanted to target every single device, even the low-powered devices to run under 10 seconds.

So this is our goal. We've chosen this as our goal for the TTU. So this is what it takes us to our

takeaway number one. Pick that no-start metric and then obsess on this metric until you achieve it.

Improve it, measure it, obsess, and then go for it. So what's next? We picked our metric.

We measured our metric. So now what we need to do is we need to understand the problem.

We knew we had a big performance problem, but we didn't know what was causing that problem.

So the big million-dollar question is, why is our app so slow? Why does it take so long to start?

We took all of those measurements and we divided the application launch time into different sections

that will allow us to understand where that time was going. So in the first part, we realized that

it was about 22% of the time I was taking about Electron and the main process of Electron,

just all that process starting up. Then our web view will start downloading, parsing JavaScript

and compiling it. And that was taking about 40 seconds. Then the workspace, rendering all the

API calls, the data fetching and rendering was taking the remainder all the time. So this way,

we can visualize and segment the different parts of the application and then focus on

those different problems. The takeaway number two is you cannot solve a problem that you don't

understand. So first, we need to understand the problem and you need to start measuring

progress towards fixing that problem. So what now? We know what the problem is. We have measured

the problem. What do we need to do? We need to come up with a plan. So we needed a plan of action.

And the first thing that we did was, okay, what have we done so far? What thing has worked? What

things have not worked? And most importantly, what's the most low-hanging fruit, the obvious

things that we can do to improve the performance of our application. So there was an obvious section

that stood out and it was 40 percent of our application was downloading, parsing and compiling

JavaScript. There was a huge part, nearly 50 percent of the time was in this section, which is basically

even before we start rendering, our application was taking this much time, but just downloading

and parsing JavaScript. Our bundle size was insanely huge. It was 14 megabytes of minified

gzip compressed JavaScript. And this is the representation of what that looked like and all

the code that we were shipping up front. And I know what you're thinking. 14 megabytes of JavaScript,

are you insane? Well, there's an explanation for this. Postman app was a single page

application that was a part of an Electron bundle that was served inside the bundle. So if you're

familiar with Electron, you can get all the JavaScript files and then just ship it with the

Electron bundle so you don't need to download anything from the network. But after years of

iteration, circular dependencies, we ended up with a big, massive application with a lot of code.

And we didn't have the need for code splitting or lazy loading because everything was inside

an Electron bundle so you didn't have to pay that network cost. Now, after that, we moved to

the web and we started shipping updates over the air. So we started downloading that JavaScript

from our CDN instead of the Electron bundle to allow us to do updates faster. So we didn't have

to download the Electron bundle every single time. But as you can imagine, that meant that now

instead of having the 14 megabytes of JavaScript inside Electron, we had to download 14 megabytes

over the network, which was a bit crazy. And that's the reason why our application was so big.

I created this visualization. I went to the webpack stats and then tried to create a visualization

of what our module graph and our bundle looked like. I ended up with this crazy, cool gif of

our bundle, which I call the Supernova Module Graph. I remember I crashed my laptop a few times

just trying to render this. It was impossible to understand all the connections and all the

things that happened in our module graph that made that 14 megabytes of JavaScript bundle.

So the question is, this is very obvious. It is big. It's a lot of JavaScript. But people might be

asking, does the bundle size matter? And actually, it does. We did some research and

the JavaScript, even if you compile it, if you compress it into Gzip, it will take

a long time for the browser to execute it. So it's not the same as having a massive JPEG image.

The bundle size, the JavaScript execution, takes a toll on your application, not just from the

download part, from the network transfer, but also the parsing and the compiling. So if you're asking,

does the bundle size matter? Yes, it does. And this is where we wanted to start reducing that bundle.

We started applying all the Performance 101 optimizations, the basic stuff, the things

that you learned that you have to do. So we started splitting the application into smaller

chunks using lazy loading and doing some code splitting, ensuring that we just load the parts

that were needed for the critical path. And we also introduced a service worker caching.

So every time the application is launched, we cache all of the assets onto the service worker,

so you don't have to download them from the network again. And when there is an update,

we cache those assets in the background. So when you open the application, you don't even

notice that the application has downloaded anything from the network, because it's already

pre-cached into the service worker. But that was not enough and we had to go deeper.

And I found a tool that I considered was the tipping point that helped us solve this

problem. And the tool was called a StatusScope. And there is a new tool called Iris Doctor,

which is very similar. I recommend you taking a look into it, which helps you understand

that super NOA model graph and understand how you can start pulling things apart from that.

The bundle analyzer has this very powerful feature. So StatusScope shows you, for example,

in this case, why lodash is being included into the bundle. And now lodash is a really big

dependency. And that was the first thing that we did, was like, okay, who is using lodash and why

is lodash being bundled up front? And it tells you what file, what line is importing this module,

so you can go and lazy load it or just completely remove it, which is what we recommend with lodash.

So the results were incredible. We went from 14 megabytes of JavaScript compiled minified gzip

to under 2.7 megabytes. There was still a lot of room for improvement, but Postman is nearly

like a code editor. So we have a lot of things like the Monaco editor, which are really,

really big and we cannot just remove. But that was huge. That was an incredible

reduction of bundle from 14 megabytes to 2.7 megabytes.

One thing that we made sure that we introduced was, okay, we need to make sure that we don't

regress. That we don't, after reducing the bundle size in such a manner, we don't want people to go

and add a new module that is going just to undo all the work that we have done. So we decided

to introduce PR blocking checks on every single pull request. It will give you a status code

report that will tell you if you are increasing the bundle size and if you are impacting the

critical path on our metric. So we introduced this and we started to implement the PR checks,

so we didn't go back to where we started. Now, the next thing was improving the network calls.

And if you're a front-end engineer, you might be thinking, well, all of the optimizations are in

the code, but actually some optimizations happen at the network level. We had so many network calls.

There were hundreds of, for example, LaunchDarkly feature flags that were dead and we wanted to

remove them. So that's the place we started. We started by removing LaunchDarkly flags,

removing all those network calls, and we started prefetching the data. We took the critical path

API calls that were required for us to render. And we started prefetching them upfront,

even before your JavaScript started executing. So the data was already in parallel from the

beginning, ready for you to use. And we also looked at the back-end. As front-end developers,

we like to think we can do a lot of micro optimizations here and there, but sometimes

the back-end is the one that is taking the longest and you need to go and speak to the back-end team

and say, okay, we need to improve the back-end performance of these APIs that are used.

And you'll be surprised how much performance you can gain from just that.

Now, the last thing was this 22% that we found, and it was the electron performance. And you might

be thinking, well, this is electron. There's nothing that you can do there to improve it.

Well, we were wrong. It was the electron section, so it was before the WebView was launched, and it

was all pure electron overhead. But then we realized that there were some things that we could improve

for the electron performance. So the first thing was, let's improve the startup overhead of

electron. Remove any database, bootstrap, initialization, blocking scripts that are happening

on our code base that we can just remove and remove the blocking. And also, we started bundling

the main process code. So in electron, one of the recommendations is to use a bundler and actually

bundle the code, the JavaScript, that runs in electron. And also, something that we found that

was very performance intensive was the require calls. Every time that you require a node module

inside the electron main process, that was taking a toll on the total performance and the launch

initialization. So for us, it was just start removing unnecessary modules and necessary dependencies

from using require. Takeaway number three, relentless execution. So, I showed you how to

divide the work, how to identify the critical areas, and then just go and execute. Remove

all these things that are affecting your application, and you will start seeing the results.

Now, after a few months working on this project, reality hit. We were just so happy that we reduced

the bundle size so much. We're happy that we're making improvements to the network. But then,

despite all of this, we were not seeing the results that we expected.

And it didn't make sense. I was looking at the real user metrics, and it didn't make sense.

I was expecting a huge reduction, at least on that section for the JavaScript loading.

And I could not see that, even though the bundle had been reduced by 90%.

So, what we had to do was just keep going and dig deeper and re-evaluate what we were doing

and verify the data until we discovered something.

There was a render-blocking process in the main process of Electron that was competing with our

resources in the renderer, making that download and parsing of JavaScript sequential. So, you can

imagine we still have a lot of JavaScript, and then the main process is completely blocking,

stopping our JavaScript execution. Which meant that it doesn't matter how much bundle size

reductions we have done, actually, they were just still waiting because they were blocked by the

main thread. And there is one main rule on Electron, and it's, do not block the main thread.

That's the golden rule. And we found this, and it was a moment of, okay, all of the improvements

that we have done so far are now starting to show because we removed this particular bug that was

affecting the main thread. And how we found it, we found it using this tool called Tracing.

And you can use it with Cron Dev Tools as well. But this Tracing is for the main process for Electron.

So, this is not the main process, the Tracing for the web app, this is for the main

process of Electron. And we realized with this that we could find the place where it was blocking

the render process. Now, it takes me to the advanced techniques. So, we have done the basics, we have

done all of these things, but this exercise of doing the Tracing in Electron made us realize that there

was more that we could do. There was more performance that we could extract. And we discovered this

called the five-byte bytecode caching, the full bytecode caching. And the full bytecode caching

is an optimization that we could implement with our service worker, where you can just basically

pre-compile all your JavaScript. So, JavaScript compiles on demand just in time. But with the

service worker, we could just, at the install event, we generate the full code cache. So, these scripts

were pre-compiled. I did not compile in a lazy manner, but install everything at once. Now, we

could do that because we had our service worker. That improved our launch performance from the

Electron side and the co-loading even further. There were other techniques and advanced performance

techniques that we tried, but they gave us different results. For example, we tried with v8

snapshots. I don't know if anyone is using v8 snapshots for the main process in Electron,

but it was a very tricky and brittle process. We got some improvements out of the v8 snapshots,

but we decided to go with just the full bytecode caching because it was more predictable.

So, takeaway number four, adapt and iterate. We had to look at the metrics, we had to look

at the results, and then figure out what things were not working, and adapt, and then continue

iterating until we got the result. Now, the last thing is organizational challenges. I mean, we are

developers, we like a really good technical challenge, but at the same time, most of the

issues that we had were also because of organizational challenges. They were not purely

technical. We had issues like we tried to have a performance team to go and fix the performance

while the rest of the company was shipping features, and the problem is this small focus

team didn't have all the tools to go and fix the problem. We also had a lack of prioritization.

Performance, we knew we had a problem, but nobody just started saying, hey, let's go and fix it,

which also generates a lack of ownership. Performance is not my problem, it's a problem

with the performance team, so I don't care about performance of the features when I start adding

more features. But our CEO, after he brought this laptop, he just said, right, this is enough.

Performance is everybody's problem, and he brought the entire company together, and he gave us a

mandate to go and fix performance. So our company was focused for a few months, where we just

focused every single developer, every single product team on fixing performance, and that was our goal,

and that's what we went to do. So takeaway number five is focus and prioritization. You need to

bring the company together, bring the different developers from different teams, and come up with

a plan and get executed as one team. It is not just one team's responsibility of performance,

every single developer should be responsible for the performance of the application.

So the results for Postman were incredible. We went from 36 seconds at P90 for most of the

slowest devices to just under 12.5 seconds for the slowest devices. And for Mac, it was even better.

Our application starts between one and two seconds, depending on the machine.

So this is what months of work and months of iteration achieved if you come together.

Thank you very much. So my name is Ruben again. Here are my links if you want to follow me and ask

any questions. Cheers.

